h2. OpenLayers Timeline

OpenLayers Timeline is a simple library to create a time related map with OpenLayers.
It supports cluster strategy (OpenLayers.Strategy.Cluster) and time filtering.
Currently it supports source data in GeoJSON or GeoRSS format.

See a demo at http://volpino.github.com/openlayers-timeline/


h3. Deps

* jQuery
* jQuery-UI Slider


h3. Basic Usage

* Setup a basic page with an OpenLayers Map (see demos for examples)

* Include the plugin for the format that you're going to use
@<script src="lib/OpenLayers.Format.GeoJSONTimeline.js" type="text/javascript"></script>@

* Include jQuery and jQuery-UI

* Include timeline.js
@<script src="timeline.js" type="text/javascript"></script>@

* create a OpenLayers Timeline object
@timeline = new OpenLayers.Timeline({map: map,@
@                                    timeline: "#timeline",@
@                                    date_key: "when",@
@                                    format: OpenLayers.Format.GeoJSONTimeline});@

* initialize Timeline and enjoy!
@timeline.initTimeline(data);@


h3. API Documentation

OpenLayers Timeline offers new data formats that can be used in OpenLayers without OpenLayers Timeline.
They add time support to existing data formats.
* OpenLayers.Format.GeoJSONTimeline: subclass of OpenLayers.Format.GeoJSON.
* OpenLayers.Format.GeoRSSTimeline: subclass of OpenLayers.Format.GeoRSS.

* OpenLayers.Timeline
** constructor options:
*** map: OpenLayers.Map object
*** timeline: id for the slider container
*** date_key: name of the field that contains a date value for the item (can be an XML tag name or a JSON field name)
*** date_funct: function to convert date value to UNIX timestamp (number of seconds from 1970/01/01). Optional
*** format: data format to use (e.g.: OpenLayers.Format.GeoJSONTimeline).
** methods:
*** initTimeline(data): initializes the timeline with data. data must be in the format specified in the constructor.
*** animateBar(): starts timeline animation
*** stopBar(): stops timeline animation
*** togglePlay(): play/pause animation
*** fasterAnimation(): make animation faster
*** slowerAnimation(): make animation slower
*** getBarValue(): get timeline value (0-100)
*** setBarValue(): set timeline value (0-100)
*** getCurrentTime(): get UNIX timestamp of displayed data
*** getCurrentSpeed(): get a string with the current animation speed
*** update(): refreshes displayed data
** properties:
*** cumulative: display data in cumulative or instantaneous view (Boolean)
*** speeds: strings with speeds strings (Strings array)
*** timedelta: delta (in seconds) for non cumulative view (default: 6 months) (Integer)


h3. Customizations

You can easily customize this plugin to fit your needs. Here's some examples:

* Make visualization non cumulative:
@timeline.cumulative = false;@

* Customize speeds names:
@timeline.speeds = ["Slow", "Normal", "Fast"];@

* Change time slice for non cumulative view:
@timeline.timedelta = 86400  //one day@

* Change map style:
@timeline.defaultStyle = new OpenLayers.Style({...})@

* redefine popup on feature clicking (see original function for an example):
@timeline.onFeatureSelect = function() {...}@


h3. Contribute!

Feel free to fork, report bugs, send patches or suggestions :D
